# Risks

Aura Finance Protocol has been built with safety and security in mind. However, there are inherent risks when interacting with any DeFi smart contracts. Our contributors have vigorously reviewed its smart contracts, and also pursued external auditors to identify potential vulnerabilities in the platform prior to launch. Even so, the possibility of losing some or all of your funds is present for certain risks as further discussed below.&#x20;

Firstly, The relevant technologies depend on public peer-to-peer networks such as [Ethereum](https://ethereum.org/en/) that are not under the control or influence of the Aura community and are subject to many risks and uncertainties (such as cyber attacks, regulatory uncertainties or chain “forks”). The Aura Finance smart contracts (or Balancer’s or another) deployed, may not be possible to modify, and in the event that the smart contracts are adversely affected by malfunctions, bugs, hacking, negligent coding or design choices, you may be exposed to a risk of total loss of all relevant digital assets.&#x20;

Please exercise caution and work within your own risk framework when it comes to interacting with the platform. As well as blockchain risks or Aura Smart Contracts specific risks, users are also beholden to any risks that pertain to the [Balancer.finance](https://app.gitbook.com/o/8tOQRgxYC6M0RuIkMzvR/s/yR6wgWxYnIV3UyGKptoa/) platform, as Aura Finance integrates directly with it. Please also review their documentation, risk explanations and Terms and Conditions where applicable, before interfacing with either platform.&#x20;

Aura Finance does not include wallet software (for example, [Metamask](https://metamask.io/)) or a node (such as [Infura](https://infura.io/)), and such software constitutes an essential third-party or user dependency that bears its own risks when you use it to interact with the Protocol. Also you are solely responsible for the safekeeping of the private key associated with your address, as it’s impossible to restore or issue any refund in respect of property lost or frozen due to loss of private keys or otherwise.&#x20;

In addition, certain portions of the Site display information about reward rates, yield rates or other rates associated with certain transactions performed by users. Such rates describe additional tokens which may be earned through Aura Finance, and may be expressed in percentage terms and denominated as “APYs” or “APRs”, or other similar terms (“Rates”). Each Rate is a forward-looking projection over a relevant period, based solely on forward-projected historical information, but such projection is based on numerous simplifications, assumptions, risks and uncertainties (including smart contract security risks, other cybersecurity risks, market fluctuations, data sources and third-party actions) which could result in a materially different token-denominated ‘Rate’. It is NOT intended as a realistic prediction of the actual future Rate of a Pool, but as an illustrative projection that is likely to be inaccurate eventually. Even when a Rate is denominated in terms of USDC or another stablecoin, such stablecoins are subject to risks of “de-pegging” and may not be an accurate representation of fiat-denominated financial returns. Ultimately the costs and speeds of transacting with cryptographic and blockchain-based systems such as Ethereum are variable and may increase or decrease dramatically at any time that may change the result as well.

